"Convert existing resource: Urdu morphological analyser","Take Muhammad Humayoun's <a href='http://www.lama.univ-savoie.fr/~humayoun/UrduMorph/'>Urdu Morphology</a> and convert to lttoolbox format.",192,ftyers,Hard,Code,"Urdu, morphological analysis, script"
"Convert existing resource: Punjabi morphological analyser","Take Muhammad Humayoun's <a href='http://www.lama.univ-savoie.fr/~humayoun/punjabi/index.html'>Punjabi Morphology</a> and convert to lttoolbox format.",192,ftyers,Hard,Code,"Punjabi, morphological analysis, script"
"Convert existing resource: Kurdish morphological analyser","Take the Alexina [https://gforge.inria.fr/scm/viewvc.php/kurlex/trunk/?root=alexina Kurdish Morphology] and convert to lttoolbox format.",192,ftyers,Hard,Code,"Kurdish, morphological analysis, script"
"LUG Flyer","Design a flyer that briefly explains Apertium, suitable for handing out at Linux User Group meetings",24,jimregan,Medium,Outreach,
"School Flyer","Design a flyer that briefly explains Apertium, suitable for handing out at your school",24,jimregan,Medium,Outreach,
"Thorough checkup of bn-en morphological analyser","While the current bn-en morphological analyser has a pretty good coverage, it should have been higher. Part of the reason is that a lot of verbs have one/two slight different surface forms that differ from the regular ones and the analyser misses them. Using lt-expand it's possible to generate all forms of the verbs, then manually check these and using another script (already in the pair) rebuild the analyser file. This checking will require a native speaker/expert on Bengali language",48,jimregan,Easy,Quality Assurance,
"Contrastive analysis: Macedonian and Albanian","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Macedonian and Albanian. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Macedonian, Albanian"
"Contrastive analysis: Kurdish and Persian","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Kurdish and Persian. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Kurdish, Persian"
"Contrastive analysis: Hindi and Urdu","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Hindu and Urdu. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Hindi, Urdu"
"Contrastive analysis: Finnish and Estonian","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Finnish and Estonian. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Finnish, Estonian"
"Contrastive analysis: Catalan and Sardinian","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Catalan and Sardinian. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Catalan, Sardinian"
"Contrastive analysis: Italian and Sardinian","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Italian and Sardinian. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Italian, Sardinian"
"Contrastive analysis: Belorussian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Belorussian and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Belorussian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Breton and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Breton and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Breton, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Bulgarian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Bulgarian and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Bulgarian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Czech and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Czech and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Czech, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Dutch and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Dutch and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Dutch, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: German and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between German and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"German, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Greek and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Greek and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Greek, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Italian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Italian and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Italian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Persian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Persian and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Persian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Polish and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Polish and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Polish, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Portuguese and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Portuguese and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Portuguese, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Russian and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Russian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Swedish and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Swedish and Esperanto. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Swedish, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Spanish and Aragonese","Create a set of test sentences (see various pages of 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' on the Wiki) for translation between Spanish and Aragonese. The tests should cover as many features of the languages as possible. Some of the examples might be able to be found in a grammar, others might need to be invented. This will not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,juanpabl,Medium,Research,"Spanish, Aragonese"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Russian to Esperanto. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Russian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Chuvash and Russian","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Chuvash to Russian. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Chuvash, Russian"
"Contrastive analysis: Chuvash and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Tatar to Chuvash. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Tatar, Chuvash"
"Contrastive analysis: Chuvash and Bashkir","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Bashkir to Chuvash. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Bashkir, Chuvash"
"Contrastive analysis: Chuvash and Turkish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Turkish to Chuvash. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Turkish, Chuvash"
"Contrastive analysis: Tatar and Russian","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Tatar to Russian. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Tatar, Russian"
"Contrastive analysis: Bashkir and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Bashkir to Tatar. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Bashkir, Tatar"
"Contrastive analysis: Bashkir and Turkish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Turkish to Bashkir. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Turkish, Bashkir"
"Contrastive analysis: Sakha and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Sakha to Russian. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Sakha, Russian"
"Contrastive analysis: Sakha and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Tatar to Yakut. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Tatar, Yakut"
"Contrastive analysis: Sakha and Turkish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Turkish to Yakut. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Turkish, Yakut"
"Contrastive analysis: Sakha and Russian","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Russian to Yakut. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Russian, Yakut"
"Contrastive analysis: Sakha and English","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from English to Yakut. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"English, Yakut"
"Contrastive analysis: Kumyk and Nogai","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Kumyk to Nogai. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Kumyk, Nogai"
"Contrastive analysis: Kumyk and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Tatar to Kumyk. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Tatar, Kumyk"
"Contrastive analysis: Kumyk and Turkish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Turkish to Kumyk. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Turkish, Kumyk"
"Contrastive analysis: Karachay-Balkar and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Tatar to Karachay-Balkar. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Tatar, Karachay-Balkar"
"Contrastive analysis: Karachay-Balkar and Turkish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Turkish to Karachay-Balkar. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Turkish, Karachay-Balkar"
"Contrastive analysis: Tuvan and Khakas","Создать множество тестовых фраз (посмотрите 'Pending tests' и 'Regression tests' в Вики) для перевода с тувинского на хакасский язык. Тесты должны содержать как можно больше черт языков. Некоторые из примеров можно найти в грамматике, другие могут быть придуманы. Без использования программирования, только грамматический анализ.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,
"Contrastive analysis: Tuvan and Tatar","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Tatar to Tuvan. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Tatar, Tuvan"
"Contrastive analysis: Tuvan and Turkish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Turkish to Tuvan. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Turkish, Tuvan"
"Contrastive analysis: Ossetian and Russian","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Ossetian to Russian. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Ossetian, Russian"
"Contrastive analysis: Ossetian and English","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Ossetian to English. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Ossetian, English"
"Contrastive analysis: Ossetian and Esperanto","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Ossetian to Esperanto. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Ossetian, Esperanto"
"Contrastive analysis: Buryat and Kalmyk","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Buryat to Kalmyk. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Buryat, Kalmyk"
"Contrastive analysis: Buryat and Yakut","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Buryat to Yakut. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Buryat, Yakut"
"Contrastive analysis: Buryat and Tuvan","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Buryat to Tuvan. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,jimregan,Medium,Research,"Buryat, Tuvan"
"Contrastive analysis: Udmurt and Russian","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Udmurt to Russian. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Udmurt, Russian"
"Contrastive analysis: Udmurt and Finnish","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Finnish to Udmurt. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Finnish, Udmurt"
"Contrastive analysis: Udmurt and Komi","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Komi to Udmurt. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Komi, Udmurt"
"Contrastive analysis: Meadow Mari and Hill Mari","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Hill Mari to Meadow Mari. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Hill_Mari, Meadow_Mari"
"Contrastive analysis: Meadow Mari and Erzya","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Erzya to Meadow Mari. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Erzya, Meadow_Mari"
"Contrastive analysis: Meadow Mari and Moksha","Create a set of test sentences (see the 'Pending tests' and 'Regression tests' pages on the wiki) for translation from Moksha to Meadow Mari. Tests should include as many features of the languages as possible. Some examples may be found in grammar texts, while others may be devised. This task does not involve programming, only grammatical analysis.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Research,"Moksha, Meadow_Mari"
"Translate the HOWTO: Norwegian","Translate the <a href='http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/new_language_pair_HOWTO'>new language pair HOWTO</a> into Nynorsk.",120,unhammer,Medium,Translation,
"Translate the HOWTO: Aragonese","Translate the <a href='http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/new_language_pair_HOWTO'>new language pair HOWTO</a> into Aragonese.",120,jimregan,Medium,Translation,
"Translate the HOWTO: Turkish","Translate the <a href='http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/new_language_pair_HOWTO'>new language pair HOWTO</a> into Turkish.",120,jimregan,Medium,Translation,
"Translate the HOWTO: Esperanto","Finish the translation of the <a href='http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/Kiel_aldoni_novan_lingvan_duon'>Kiel aldoni novan lingvan duon</a> into Esperanto.",96,hectoralos,Medium,Translation,
"Design a user-friendly Glade interface for Apertium","Apertium does not currently have a friendly user interface for translators. Look at other translation software on the market, and sketch out some ideas for how to design a user interface. We don't require an implementation, just the XML-based interface mockup",48,jimregan,Medium,User Interface,
"Design a user-friendly web interface for Apertium","Apertium has a friendly user interface for translators, but more attention needs to be paid to its visual appearance. This will involve either a user interface mockup (preferably using GWT), or a "theme" using CSS for the existing interface.",48,jimregan,Medium,User Interface,
"Design a user-friendly interface for a web-based dictionary management tool.","Apertium does not currently have a friendly user interface for adding new words to the dictionaries. We need someone with a good sense of design to provide us with a mockup for a web interface for managing a dictionary.",48,jimregan,Medium,User Interface,
"Design a user-friendly interface for an Android version of TinyLex","TinyLex is a dictionary tool for J2ME. We would like to port it to Android, but as we are not UI designers, we would prefer it if someone with a sense for visual design took on this task. There are tools available for drawing an interface in XML - it would be better if they were used.",48,jimregan,Medium,User Interface,
"Design a user-friendly Android interface for Apertium","Design a mockup of a GUI for Apertium for Android. We don't run on Android yet, but work is ongoing. We would like some ideas for an interface that makes sense on phones, primarily, but taking the tablet form factor into account is also an option.",48,jimregan,Medium,User Interface,
"Step-by-step "become a developer" guide","Write a simple step-by-step guide (on the wiki) for pre-university students (of varying levels of computer literacy) to install a development version of Apertium and make a single change in a language pair. This should include everything, from checking out with <a href='http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/SVN'>SVN</a> to requesting committer access on SourceForge. Document everything you do!",48,mlforcada,Easy,Training,
"Step-by-step "constraint grammar" guide","Write a simple step-by-step guide (on the wiki) for pre-university students (of varying levels of computer literacy) to install Constraint Grammar and fix 5 disambiguation problems in a single sentence, then committing to the <a href='http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/incubator'>incubator</a>. This should include everything, from checking out with [[SVN]] to requesting committer access on SourceForge. Document everything you do!",48,unhammer,Easy,Training,
"Basics of grammar guide","Write a basic guide that teaches the basics of grammar, with reference to the part of speech tags used in Apertium",48,jimregan,Easy,Training,
"Moodle course","Design a Moodle-based course for beginning a new language pair. The New Language Pair HOWTO can be used as a guide",96,jimregan,Medium,Training,
"Apertium AWI Screencase","Create a screencast that gives a step by step guide to using Apertium via Apertium AWI. It's OK to assume that it has already been set up",48,jimregan,Easy,Training,
"Apertium Regular Expressions guide","lttoolbox allows a limited subset of POSIX regular expressions. Create a guide to the regexes allowed, and to using them for common tasks, such as matching dates.",48,jimregan,Hard,Training,
"Release freshness","Go through all the 25 released pairs and note down their date of last release and how many dictionary entries and rules they have. Then go to SVN and look at the module for the released pair and find out how many dictionary entries and rules it has. Put this into a spreadsheet and email the mailing list. Why? Our release cycle is very slow, and often we get pairs in trunk which have substantial improvements but have not been released.",48,ftyers,Easy,Quality Assurance,
"Create a dictionary crossing guide","Create a full guide to crossing dictionaries, using notes that will be provided.",48,jimregan,Easy,Documentation,
"Create an installation guide for Windows users","We have some installation notes, but they were not written with an average user in mind. Write a new installation guide, specifically for Windows users, that don't presume a high level of technical knowledge.",48,jimregan,Easy,Documentation,
"Create an installation guide for Mac users","We have some installation notes, but they were not written with an average user in mind. Write a new installation guide, specifically for Mac users, that don't presume a high level of technical knowledge.",48,jimregan,Easy,Documentation,
"Create an installation guide for Ubuntu users","We have some installation notes, but they were not written with an average user in mind. Write a new installation guide, specifically for Ubuntu users, that don't presume a high level of technical knowledge. Specifically, steer people away from installing the dated Debian/Ubuntu packages.",48,jimregan,Easy,Documentation,
"Writing a quick guide on 'What Apertium can and cannot do to help you with your homework'.","Students around the world use Apertium (and other MT systems) to do their second-language homework. The documents would summarize the do's and don'ts, and could even elaborate on how students using Apertium for their homework could discover ways in which Apertium could be improved.",48,mlforcada,Easy,Outreach,
"Document undocumented features: manpages","Work through each of the manpages in apertium and lttoolbox, checking that each of the options listed by --help is documented.",48,jimregan,Easy,Documentation,
"Improve a language pair: Welsh-English","Find some faults in Welsh-English and fix them.",192,ftyers,Hard,Quality Assurance,"Welsh, English, mt"
"Improve a language pair: Breton-French","Find some faults in Breton-French and fix them.",192,ftyers,Hard,Quality Assurance,"Breton, French, mt"
"Improve a language pair: Basque-Spanish","Find some faults in Basque-Spanish and fix them.",192,jimregan,Hard,Quality Assurance,"Basque, Spanish, mt"
"Improve a language pair: French-Esperanto","Find some faults in French-Esperanto and fix them.",192,hectoralos,Hard,Quality Assurance,"French, Esperanto, mt"
"Improve a language pair: Spanish-Esperanto","Find some faults in Spanish-Esperanto and fix them.",192,hectoralos,Hard,Quality Assurance,"Spanish, Esperanto, mt"
"Improve a language pair: Catalan-Esperanto","Find some faults in Catalan-Esperanto and fix them.",192,hectoralos,Hard,Quality Assurance,"Catalan, Esperanto, mt"
"Improve a language pair: English-Esperanto","Find some faults in English-Esperanto and fix them.",192,hectoralos,Hard,Quality Assurance,"English, Esperanto, mt"
"Document undocumented features: cascaded interchunk","Update the Apertium manual to document cascaded interchunk.",96,mlforcada,Medium,Documentation,
"Document undocumented features: transliteration","Update the Apertium manual to document the transliteration features in lttoolbox.",96,ftyers,Medium,Documentation,
"Create Chuvash-Russian dictionary","Create Chuvash-Russian dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Chuvash, Russian"
"Create Chuvash-Tatar dictionary","Create Chuvash-Tatar dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Chuvash, Tatar"
"Create Chuvash-Bashkir dictionary","Create Chuvash-Bashkir dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Chuvash, Bashkir"
"Create Chuvash-Yakut dictionary","Create Chuvash-Yakut dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Chuvash, Yakut"
"Create Tatar-Russian dictionary","Create Tatar-Russian dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Tatar, Russian"
"Create Tatar-Turkish dictionary","Create Tatar-Turkish dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Tatar, Turkish"
"Create Tatar-Bashkir dictionary","Create Tatar-Bashkir dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Tatar, Bashkir"
"Create Tatar-Yakut dictionary","Create Chuvash-Yakut dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Chuvash, Yakut"
"Create Bashkir-Russian dictionary","Create Tatar-Russian dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Tatar, Russian"
"Create Bashkir-Turkish dictionary","Create Tatar-Turkish dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Tatar, Turkish"
"Create Bashkir-Yakut dictionary","Create Chuvash-Yakut dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,
"Create Ossetian-Russian dictionary","Create Ossetian-Russian dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Ossetian, Russian"
"Create Ossetian-English dictionary","Create Ossetian-English dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Ossetian, English"
"Create Ossetian-Esperanto dictionary","Create Ossetian-Esperanto dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Ossetian, Esperanto"
"Create Buryat-Kalmyk dictionary","Create Buryat-Kalmyk dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Buryat, Kalmyk"
"Create Buryat-Yakut dictionary","Create Buryat-Yakut dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Buryat, Yakut"
"Create Buryat-Tuvan dictionary","Create Buryat-Tuvan dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Buryat, Tuvan"
"Create Russian-Yakut dictionary","Create Russian-Yakut dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"Russian, Yakut"
"Create English-Yakut dictionary","Create English-Yakut dictionary",48,jimregan,Easy,Code,"English, Yakut"
"Create Russian-Udmurt dictionary","Create Russian-Udmurt dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Russian, Udmurt"
"Create Finnish-Udmurt dictionary","Create Finnish-Udmurt dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Finnish, Udmurt"
"Create Komi-Udmurt dictionary","Create Komi-Udmurt dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Komi, Udmurt"
"Create Meadow Mari-Hill Mari dictionary","Create Meadow Mari-Hill Mari dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Meadow_Mari, Hill_Mari"
"Create Finnish-Hill Mari dictionary","Create Meadow Mari-Hill Mari dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Meadow_Mari, Hill_Mari"
"Create Meadow Mari-Erzya dictionary","Create Meadow Mari-Erzya dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Meadow_Mari, Erzya"
"Create Meadow Mari-Moksha dictionary","Create Meadow Mari-Moksha dictionary",48,hectoralos,Easy,Code,"Meadow_Mari, Moksha"
"Improve Irish-Manx Gaelic coverage","I can provide a list of the most common Irish words not covered by the bilingual dictionary, and their English translations.  Manx translations needed for these.",72,jimregan,Easy,Quality Assurance,
"Add gender information to Manx dictionary","Most of the nouns in the Manx dictionary have gender information in place - look up and add any that are missing.",72,jimregan,Easy,Quality Assurance,
"Proofread Albanian analyser","We have a morphological analyser for Albanian, but it has been written by a non-native speaker and needs to be checked.",144,ftyers,Easy,Quality Assurance,
"Proofread Catalan-Sardinian dictionary","Go through the Catalan-Sardinian dictionary and check the entries, there are only around a thousand or so.",24,ftyers,Easy,Translation,
"Add toponyms to the Spanish-Aragonese dictionaries","Extract from wikipedia the names in Aragonese for countries in the world, their capital cities, main Spanish cities and municipalities in Aragon, and add them to the es-an dictionaries.",144,juanpabl,Medium,Code,
"Update the Apertium TinyLex J2ME apps for one language pair","Update Apertium TinyLex J2ME packages (http://www.tinylex.com/) to contain the most recent versions of dictionaries for one language pair",96,mlforcada,Medium,Code,
"Create an Apertium TinyLex J2ME app for a new language pair","Create an Apertium TinyLex J2ME package (http://www.tinylex.com/) from an existing Apertium language pair for a language pair not offered yet in Tinylex",144,mlforcada,Medium,Code,
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Simple noun phrases)","Write a contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of noun phrases from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Prepositional phrases)","Write a contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of prepositions/prepositional phrases from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Tenses)","Write a contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of verb tenses from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Aspect)","Write a contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of verbal aspect from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Pronouns)","Write a comprehensive contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of pronouns from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Impersonal constructions)","Write a comprehensive contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of impersonal constructions from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Verbs of motion)","Write a comprehensive contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of verbs of motion from Russian to Spanish. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Contrastive analysis: Russian--Spanish (Particles and adverbs)","Write a comprehensive contrastive grammar of Russian and Spanish for the translation of particles and adverbs from Russian to Spanish, paying special attention to word/constituent order. The grammar should be written as a series of human readable rules, with example sentences.",24,ftyers,Medium,Research,"Russian, Spanish, mt"
"Fix memory hogging in lttoolbox compound analyser","Described in [http://bugs.apertium.org/cgi-bin/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=109 bug report 109], the compound analyser in lttoolbox seems to cache too much without releasing memory. Fix this bug so it keeps memory usage constant without running slower and slower for every line of input. Requires C++ knowledge.",24,unhammer,Hard,Code,
